   Explanatory note on the updated ENCORE knowledge base
    outlining business dependencies and impacts on nature
                                                                   Prepared by: UNEP-WCMC
                                                                            Date: June 2024

ENCORE (Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks and Exposure) is a free, online tool
that helps organisations explore their exposure to nature-related risk and take the first steps
to understand their dependencies and impacts on nature. It allows users to scope and identify
priorities for further analysis. ENCORE is a key tool, referenced by leading corporate
frameworks and standards, such as the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures
(TNFD), the Science Based Targets Network (SBTN) and the GRI Standards. It is also widely
used in macroeconomic studies of nature-related risks.

The ENCORE tool was developed in 2018 by Global Canopy, UNEP FI and UNEP-WCMC, who
together form the ENCORE Partnership, previously known as The Natural Capital Finance
Alliance (NCFA). ENCORE Partnership maintains and continually improves the ENCORE tool.
The update of the ENCORE knowledge base described in this note has been developed as part
of the Horizon Europe project “Strengthening Understanding and Strategies of Business to
Assess and Integrate Nature (SUSTAIN)”. The organisations involved in the technical
developments and quality assurance of the data were: UN Environment Programme World
Conservation Monitoring Centre (UNEP-WCMC), the Capitals Coalition, the Netherlands
Environmental Assessment Agency (PBL), the International Union for the Conservation of
Nature (IUCN), IUCN Europe and Eidgenoessische Technische Hochschule Zürich (ETH
Zürich). Other SUSTAIN project partners include Oxford Sustainable Finance Group, WBCSD,
ShareAction and Fundación Biodiversidad.

The research conducted under the SUSTAIN project enabled updating and enhancing the
ENCORE knowledge base. The improvements are in line with the evolving finance-business-
nature nexus and associated user needs and feedback. The enhanced knowledge base is
aimed primarily at businesses, financial institutions and regulatory bodies to support their
screening of potential dependencies and impacts on biodiversity and ecosystem services. As
before, ENCORE covers a broad range of sectors and economic activities at the global
level. The data have been updated by drawing on the latest scientific research and grey
literature.

This explanatory note outlines the components of the updated ENCORE knowledge base and
how they can support users in understanding their dependencies and impacts. A more
detailed methodological document will be made available in the second half of 2024.




                                                                                             1
Acronyms
CICES - Common International Classification of Ecosystem Services

DPSIR - Driver-Pressure-State-Impact-Response framework

EE-MRIO - Environmentally-Extended Multi-Regional Input-Output database

ENCORE - Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks and Exposure

ETH Zürich - Eidgenoessische Technische Hochschule Zürich

FAQ - Frequently asked questions

GET - IUCN Global Ecosystem Typology

GHG - Greenhouse gas

GICS® - Global Industry Classification Standard

IPBES - Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services

ISIC - UN’s International Standard Industrial Classification for All Economic Activities (ISIC)

IUCN - International Union for the Conservation of Nature

NACE - European Classification of Economic Activities

N/A - Not Applicable

ND - No Data

NCFA - Natural Capital Finance Alliance

NWFP - Non-wood forest products

PBL - Planbureau voor de Leefomgeving / Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency

SBTN - Science Based Targets Network

SEEA EA - System of Environmental Economic Accounting – Ecosystem Accounting

SUSTAIN - Strengthening Understanding and Strategies of Business to Assess and Integrate
Nature

SUSTAIN WP1 - Work package 1

TNFD - Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures

UNEP FI - UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative

UNEP-WCMC - UN Environment Programme World Conservation Monitoring Centre




                                                                                                  2
Contents
1. General overview of the changes .................................................................................................. 3
2. Seven improvements included in the update .............................................................................. 5
2.1 Industry classification .................................................................................................................. 5
2.2 Ecosystem services ...................................................................................................................... 5
2.3 Impact pathway ........................................................................................................................... 10
2.4 Ecosystem types and components .......................................................................................... 11
2.5 Dependency and pressure links ................................................................................................ 13
2.6 Materiality ratings ....................................................................................................................... 14
   2.6.1 Qualitative assessment methodology ............................................................................... 16
   2.6.2 Materiality ratings for the cultural ecosystem services .................................................. 18
   2.6.3 Quantitative materiality ratings .......................................................................................... 18
   2.6.4 Blended materiality ratings ................................................................................................. 19
2.7 Value chain links ......................................................................................................................... 19
3. Crosswalk tables ........................................................................................................................... 21
4. Other notes ..................................................................................................................................... 21
5. Limitations ...................................................................................................................................... 21



      1. General overview of the changes
The ENCORE knowledge base is the information that underpins the ENCORE tool. It contains
two ‘pathways’, one focused on dependencies and the other on impacts, which are
interconnected by the interrelation of the components. Both pathways were reviewed and
improved during this process. The structure of the previous iteration of the knowledge base
is outlined is summarized in Figure 1, whereas Figure 2 outlines the structure of the updated
knowledge base.




                                                                                                                                                      3
Figure 1: Structure of the 2018-2023 version of the ENCORE knowledge base




Figure 2: Structure of the updated ENCORE knowledge base.

The updated ENCORE knowledge base includes the seven key improvements summarized in
Table 1 below.
Table 1. Summary of the changes between the 2018-2023 version of the ENCORE knowledge base and the
updated knowledge base.

    2018-2023 version of the ENCORE
                                               Updated ENCORE knowledge base
    knowledge base
      ®
1 GICS Industry Classification                 ISIC Industry Classification

                                               Ecosystem services from SEEA-EA Level 1 (including
2 Ecosystem services from CICES                cultural ecosystem services)

    Impact drivers                             Pressures
3
    Drivers of environmental change            Mechanisms of change in state



                                                                                                     4
                                            Natural capital divided into ecosystem types (biomes) and
4 No biome-specific information             ecosystem components

  Qualitative links drawing on literature   All qualitative links in the knowledge base have been updated
5 available in 2018                         using latest scientific research and grey literature

  All materiality ratings based on
                                            Comparability of materiality ratings across sectors, some
  qualitative assessment only, with
6 limited comparability of ratings across   pressures materiality ratings draw on quantitative indicators to
                                            the extent possible
  sectors

  Direct potential dependencies and
7 impacts only                              Inclusion of downstream and upstream value chain links




   2. Seven improvements included in the update

2.1 Industry classification
The first improvement involves replacing the Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS®)
and a custom list of ENCORE production processes with the UN’s International Standard
Industrial Classification for All Economic Activities (ISIC). The previous version of the ENCORE
knowledge base offered 92 production processes within 152 GICS® sub-industries, while the
updated version provides dependencies and impacts for 271 economic activities based on
ISIC groups and classes (levels 3 and 4).



    What it means for users:

    This update allows users to more easily find the economic activities in which they
    are interested. The list of production processes used in the 2018-2023 version of the
    knowledge base was not always clear as it was developed for the purposes of
    ENCORE only and did not draw on a standardized industry classification.

    ISIC is a comprehensive, globally recognized classification and is the parent
    classification for many regional and local industry classifications. Conversion
    (crosswalk) tables from ISIC to most other industry classifications are publicly
    available. A crosswalk table from GICS (R) to ISIC is provided for ENCORE users as
    part of the downloadable materials.

    The increased number of economic activities under the new industry classification
    also provides additional granularity on potential dependencies and impacts.




2.2 Ecosystem services
The categorization of ecosystem services used in ENCORE has been updated. The new list is
based on categorization of ecosystem services used in the UN System of Environmental-
Economic Accounting Ecosystem Accounting (SEEA EA). It can be seen in Table 2 below
along with the definitions for each ecosystem service. The previous version of the ENCORE


                                                                                                    5
knowledge base used ecosystem services categories based on the Common International
Classification of Ecosystem Services (CICES). A crosswalk between SEEA EA and CICES is
available here.

Please note that ecosystem services marked with a ‘*’ are not separately defined in the SEEA
EA. They were retained from the previous version of the ENCORE knowledge base for
consistency and in SEEA EA fall under “other provisioning ecosystem services” or “other
regulatory and maintenance ecosystem services”. Their definitions have remained the same
as in the previous version of the ENCORE knowledge base.


   What it means for users:

   The SEEA EA categorization of ecosystem services is better suited for applications
   in business and finance context. SEEA EA categorization of ecosystem services is
   also used by the TNFD framework and other corporate frameworks.

   Furthermore, this improvement includes the addition of four cultural ecosystem
   services, which were not included in the previous version of the knowledge base:

       1. Recreation-related services

       2. Visual amenity services

       3. Education, scientific and research services

       4. Spiritual, artistic and symbolic services




                                                                                          6
    Table 2: List of ecosystem services used in the updated ENCORE knowledge base based on SEEA EA. Mapping of dependencies of different economic activities was done using
    SEEA EA Level 1 (e.g. biomass provisioning services, genetic material services etc.). SEEA EA Level 2 is included in the table because some of the SEEA EA Level 1 ecosystem
    services are defined based on which Level 2 ecosystem services are included within them.

Ecosystem services (based on SEEA EA)
Level 1 (Used for         Level 2                                   Definition
dependency links)
Provisioning services
Biomass provisioning services   Crop provisioning services          Crop provisioning services are the ecosystem contributions to the growth of cultivated plants that are harvested by economic units for
                                                                    various uses including food and fibre production, fodder and energy. This is a final ecosystem service.
                                Grazed biomass provisioning         Grazed biomass provisioning services are the ecosystem contributions to the growth of grazed biomass that is an input to the growth
                                services                            of cultivated livestock. This service excludes the ecosystem contributions to the growth of crops used to produce fodder for livestock
                                                                    (e.g., hay, soybean meal). These contributions are included under crop provisioning services. This is a final ecosystem service but may
                                                                    be intermediate to livestock provisioning services.
                                Livestock provisioning services     Livestock provisioning services are the ecosystem contributions to the growth of cultivated livestock and livestock products (e.g.,
                                                                    meat, milk, eggs, wool, leather), that are used by economic units for various uses, primarily food production. This is a final ecosystem
                                                                    service. No distinct livestock provisioning services to be recorded if grazed biomass provisioning services are recorded as a final
                                                                    ecosystem service.
                                Aquaculture provisioning services   Aquaculture provisioning services are the ecosystem contributions to the growth of animals and plants (e.g. fish, shellfish, seaweed)
                                                                    in aquaculture facilities that are harvested by economic units for various uses. This is a final ecosystem service.
                                Wood provisioning services          Wood provisioning services are the ecosystem contributions to the growth of trees and other woody biomass in both cultivated
                                                                    (plantation) and uncultivated production contexts that are harvested by economic units for various uses including timber production
                                                                    and energy. This service excludes contributions to non-wood forest products. This is a final ecosystem service.
                                Wild fish and other natural
                                aquatic products provisioning       Wild fish and other natural aquatic biomass provisioning services are the ecosystem contributions to the growth of fish and other
                                services                            aquatic biomass that are captured in uncultivated production contexts by economic units for various uses, primarily food production.
                                                                    This is a final ecosystem service.
                                Wild animals, plants and other      Wild animals, plants and other biomass provisioning services are the ecosystem contributions to the growth of wild animals, plants
                                biomass provisioning services       and other biomass that are captured and harvested in uncultivated production contexts by economic units for various uses. The scope
                                                                    includes non-wood forest products (NWFP) and services related to hunting, trapping and bio-prospecting activities; but excludes wild
                                                                    fish and other natural aquatic biomass (included in previous class). This is a final ecosystem service.
Genetic material services                                           Genetic material services are the ecosystem contributions from all biota (including seed, spore or gamete production) that are used by
                                                                    economic units, for example (i) to develop new animal and plant breeds; (ii) in gene synthesis; or (iii) in product development directly
                                                                    using genetic material. This is most commonly recorded as an intermediate service to biomass provisioning.
Water supply                                                        Water supply services reflect the combined ecosystem contributions of water flow regulation, water purification, and other ecosystem
                                                                    services to the supply of water of appropriate quality to users for various uses including household consumption. This is a final
                                                                    ecosystem service.
Other provisioning services -                                       Physical labour is provided by domesticated or commercial species, including oxen, horses, donkeys, goats and elephants. These can
Animal-based energy*                                                be grouped as draught animals, pack animals and mounts.
Regulating and maintenance services
Global climate regulation                                           Global climate regulation services are the ecosystem contributions to the regulation of the chemical composition of the atmosphere
services                                                            and oceans that affect global climate through the accumulation and retention of carbon and other GHG (e.g., methane) in ecosystems
                                                                    and the ability of ecosystems to remove (sequester) carbon from the atmosphere. This is a final ecosystem service.




                                                                                                                                                                                                    7
Rainfall pattern regulation                                           Rainfall pattern regulation services are the ecosystem contributions of vegetation, in particular forests, in maintaining rainfall patterns
services (at sub-continental                                          through evapotranspiration at the sub-continental scale. Forests and other vegetation recycle moisture back to the atmosphere where
scale)                                                                it is available for the generation of rainfall. Rainfall in interior parts of continents fully depends upon this recycling. This may be a final
                                                                      or intermediate service.
Local (micro and meso) climate                                        Local climate regulation services are the ecosystem contributions to the regulation of ambient atmospheric conditions (including
regulation services                                                   micro and mesoscale climates) through the presence of vegetation that improves the living conditions for people and supports
                                                                      economic production. Examples include the evaporative cooling provided by urban trees (‘green space’), the role of urban water bodies
                                                                      (‘blue space’) and the contribution of trees in providing shade for humans and livestock. This may be a final or intermediate service.
Air filtration services                                               Air filtration services are the ecosystem contributions to the filtering of air-borne pollutants through the deposition, uptake, fixing and
                                                                      storage of pollutants by ecosystem components, particularly plants, that mitigates the harmful effects of the pollutants. This is most
                                                                      commonly a final ecosystem service.
Soil quality regulation services                                      Soil quality regulation services are the ecosystem contributions to the decomposition of organic and inorganic materials and to the
                                                                      fertility and characteristics of soils, e.g., for input to biomass production. This is most commonly recorded as an intermediate service.
Soil and sediment retention        Soil erosion control services      Soil erosion control services are the ecosystem contributions, particularly the stabilising effects of vegetation, that reduce the loss of
services                                                              soil (and sediment) and support use of the environment (e.g., agricultural activity, water supply). This is may be recorded as a final or
                                                                      intermediate service.
                                   Landslide mitigation               Landslide mitigation services are the ecosystem contributions, particularly the stabilising effects of vegetation, that mitigates or
                                                                      prevents potential damage to human health and safety and damaging effects to buildings and infrastructure that arise from the mass
                                                                      movement (wasting) of soil, rock and snow. This is a final ecosystem service.
Solid waste remediation                                               Solid waste remediation services are the ecosystem contributions to the transformation of organic or inorganic substances, through
                                                                      the action of micro-organisms, algae, plants and animals that mitigates their harmful effects. This may be recorded as a final or
                                                                      intermediate service.
Water purification services        Retention and breakdown of         Water purification services are the ecosystem contributions to the restoration and maintenance of the chemical condition of surface
(water quality amelioration)       nutrients                          water and groundwater bodies through the breakdown or removal of nutrients and other pollutants by ecosystem components that
                                   Retention and breakdown of other   mitigate the harmful effects of the pollutants on human use or health. This may be recorded as a final or intermediate ecosystem
                                   pollutants                         service.
Water flow regulation services     Baseline flow maintenance          Water regulation services are the ecosystem contributions to the regulation of river flows and groundwater and lake water tables. They
                                   services                           are derived from the ability of ecosystems to absorb and store water, and gradually release water during dry seasons or periods
                                                                      through evapotranspiration and hence secure a regular flow of water. This may be recorded as a final or intermediate ecosystem
                                                                      service.
                                   Peak flow mitigation services      Water regulation services are the ecosystem contributions to the regulation of river flows and groundwater and lake water tables. They
                                                                      are derived from the ability of ecosystems to absorb and store water, and hence mitigate the effects of flood and other extreme water-
                                                                      related events. Peak flow mitigation services will be supplied together with river flood mitigation services in providing the benefit of
                                                                      flood protection. This is a final ecosystem service.
Flood mitigation services          Coastal protection services        Coastal protection services are the ecosystem contributions of linear elements in the seascape, for instance coral reefs, sand banks,
                                                                      dunes or mangrove ecosystems along the shore, in protecting the shore and thus mitigating the impacts of tidal surges or storms on
                                                                      local communities. This is a final ecosystem service.
                                   River flood mitigation services    River flood mitigation services are the ecosystem contributions of riparian vegetation which provides structure and a physical barrier
                                                                      to high water levels and thus mitigates the impacts of floods on local communities. River flood mitigation services will be supplied
                                                                      together with peak flow mitigation services in providing the benefit of flood protection. This is a final ecosystem service.
Storm mitigation services                                             Storm mitigation services are the ecosystem contributions of vegetation including linear elements, in mitigating the impacts of wind,
                                                                      sand and other storms (other than water related events) on local communities. This is a final ecosystem service.
Noise attenuation services                                            Noise attenuation services are the ecosystem contributions to the reduction in the impact of noise on people that mitigates its
                                                                      harmful or stressful effects. This is most commonly a final ecosystem service.
Pollination services                                                  Pollination services are the ecosystem contributions by wild pollinators to the fertilization of crops that maintains or increases the
                                                                      abundance and/or diversity of other species that economic units use or enjoy. This may be recorded as a final or intermediate service.



                                                                                                                                                                                                             8
Biological control services        Pest control services       Biological control services are the ecosystem contributions to the reduction in the incidence of species that may prevent or reduce the
                                                               effects of pests on biomass production processes or other economic and human activity. This may be recorded as a final or
                                                               intermediate service.
                                   Disease control services    Disease control services are the ecosystem contributions to the reduction in the incidence of species that may prevent or reduce the
                                                               effects of species on human health. This is most commonly a final ecosystem service.
Nursery population and habitat                                 Nursery population and habitat maintenance services are the ecosystem contributions necessary for sustaining populations of
maintenance services                                           species that economic units ultimately use or enjoy either through the maintenance of habitats (e.g., for nurseries or migration) or the
                                                               protection of natural gene pools. This service is an intermediate service and may input to a number of different final ecosystem
                                                               services including biomass provision and recreation-related services.
Other regulating and                                           Water, both fresh and saline, and the atmosphere can dilute the gases, fluids and solid waste produced by human activity.
maintenance service - Dilution
by atmosphere and
ecosystems*
Other regulating and                                           Vegetation is the main (natural) barrier used to reduce light pollution and other sensory impacts, limiting the impact it can have on
maintenance service -                                          human health and the environment.
Mediation of sensory impacts
(other than noise)*
Cultural services
Recreation-related services                                    Recreation-related services are the ecosystem contributions, in particular through the biophysical characteristics and qualities of
                                                               ecosystems, that enable people to use and enjoy the environment through direct, in-situ, physical and experiential interactions with the
                                                               environment. This includes services to both locals and non-locals (i.e. visitors, including tourists). Recreation-related services may
                                                               also be supplied to those undertaking recreational fishing and hunting. This is a final ecosystem service.
Visual amenity services                                        Visual amenity services are the ecosystem contributions to local living conditions, in particular through the biophysical characteristics
                                                               and qualities of ecosystems that provide sensory benefits, especially visual. This service combines with other ecosystem services,
                                                               including recreation-related services and noise attenuation services to underpin amenity values. This is a final ecosystem service.
Education, scientific and                                      Education, scientific and research services are the ecosystem contributions, in particular through the biophysical characteristics and
research services                                              qualities of ecosystems, that enable people to use the environment through intellectual interactions with the environment. This is a
                                                               final ecosystem service.
Spiritual, artistic and symbolic                               Spiritual artistic and symbolic services are the ecosystem contributions, in particular through the biophysical characteristics and
services                                                       qualities of ecosystems, that are recognised by people for their cultural, historical, aesthetic, sacred or religious significance. These
                                                               services may underpin people’s cultural identity and may inspire people to express themselves through various artistic media. This is a
                                                               final ecosystem service.
    Source: United Nations et al. (2021). System of Environmental-Economic Accounting— Ecosystem Accounting (SEEA EA). White cover publication, pre-edited text subject to
    official editing. Available at: https://seea.un.org/ecosystem-accounting.

    Note: Ecosystem services marked with * are not separately defined in the SEEA-EA. They were retained from the previous version of the ENCORE knowledge base for consistency.
    Their definitions are based on the Common International Classification of Ecosystem Services (CICES). Available at: https://cices.eu/




                                                                                                                                                                                                 9
2.3 Impact pathway
As part of the improvements, the definition and structure of the impact pathway were reviewed
and updated. In the 2018-2023 version of the ENCORE knowledge base, the impact pathway
was split into "impact drivers“ and "drivers of environmental change". In the updated ENCORE
knowledge base, the components are renamed to "pressures" and "mechanisms of change in
state", in line with the Driver-Pressure-State-Impact-Response (DPSIR) framework.

The definition of pressures is adapted from the IPBES definition, and in line with the DPSIR
framework, which refers to “the use of a measurable quantity of a natural resource or release
of measurable quantity of substances (emissions), physical and biological agents, the use of
resources and the use of land. The pressures exerted by society are transported and
transformed in a variety of natural processes to manifest themselves in changes in
environmental conditions”. Examples of pressures include Area of land use, GHG emissions,
Emissions of toxic pollutants to water and soil. Other initiatives, such as TNFD and the
Capitals Coalition use the term “impact driver”.

Mechanisms of change in state refer to processes that cause changes in the state of
ecosystems and their components (natural capital), which are influenced by pressures.
Examples include Flooding, Sea surface temperature, Fires, Land use change, etc.

The contents of the lists of pressures and mechanisms of change in state
were revised to ensure different potential impact pathways are captured and to reduce
overlap between the two lists. For example, in the previous version of the ENCORE knowledge
base an economic activity could be linked to Soil pollutants as an impact driver, and pollution
as a driver of environmental change. In the updated knowledge base, the pressure caused by
the economic activity would be Emissions of toxic pollutants to water and soil, and the
mechanism of change in state would be Pollutants concentration change, which in turn would
affect ecosystem components such as Soils and sediments or Structural and biotic integrity.

The updated ENCORE knowledge base contains descriptive links between pressures and
ecosystem components, via mechanisms of change, supported by up-to-date citations. This
new addition provides links for complete impact pathways from pressures through to
components, rather than separately between pressures and mechanisms, and mechanisms
and components.

This change also responds to the confusion expressed by some users caused by two different
sets of ‘drivers’ (impact drivers and drivers of environmental change) in the previous version
of the ENCORE knowledge base. The two distinct components of the impact pathway were
kept to provide clarity and capture more detail. As illustrated in the example in Table 3 below,
one pressure can exacerbate multiple mechanisms of change in state.


Table 3: Example illustrating how one pressure can exacerbate multiple mechanisms of change in state.

 Pressure                                               Mechanism of change in state linked to the pressure
 Area of freshwater use                                 Change in species composition
                                                        Changes in species population size
                                                        Diseases
                                                        Droughts
                                                        Flooding
                                                        Land /freshwater/ seabed area modification
                                                        Pollutants concentration change
                                                        Weather conditions



                                                                                                          10
     What it means for users:

     This update provides users with improved clarity on the structure of the impact
     pathway. The two components of the impact pathway are more clearly defined and
     differentiated. The two-step impact pathway shows that one pressure can exacerbate
     multiple different mechanisms of change in state and, as a result, lead to multiple
     impacts.




2.4 Ecosystem types and components
As illustrated in Figure 2, the dependency and impact pathways in the ENCORE knowledge
base are connected to natural capital. The updated knowledge base now includes added
granularity. Natural capital is separated into different ecosystem types and ecosystem
components (the latter were previously called natural capital assets).

The 15 ecosystem types are based on the biomes included in the IUCN Global Ecosystem
Typology 2.0 (see Table 4 below for an overview of how the IUCN GET 2.0 biomes were
adapted for the purposes of ENCORE). Together with eight ecosystem components, the
ecosystem types (see Table 5) provide more detail on habitats and species.
Table 4: List of ecosystem types used in the updated ENCORE knowledge base, compared to biomes and list of
biomes used in the IUCN GET list and TNFD list of biomes.

IUCN Global Ecosystem Typology                                                 ENCORE ecosystem types
   (GET) 2.0 Biomes (Level 2)
                                              TNFD List of biomes

T1      Tropical-subtropical T1     Tropical-subtropical forests           Tropical-subtropical and
        forests                                                            Temperate-boreal forests and
T2      Temperate-boreal     T2     Temperate-boreal forests & woodlands   woodlands
        forests & woodlands
T3      Shrublands & shrubby T3     Shrublands & shrubby woodlands         Shrublands & shrubby woodlands,
        woodlands                                                          Savannas and grasslands
T4      Savannas and         T4     Savannas and grasslands
        grasslands
T5      Deserts and semi-    T5     Deserts and semi-deserts               Desert and Semi-deserts
        deserts
T6      Polar-alpine         T6     Polar-alpine                           Polar-alpine

T7      Intensive land-use    T7    Intensive land-use systems             Intensive Land Use Systems –
        systems                                                            Croplands, pastures and
                                                                           plantations
                                                                           Intensive Land Use Systems -
                                                                           Urban and industrial ecosystems
S1      Subterranean lithic   S1    Subterranean cave and rock systems     Subterranean ecosystems
        systems                                                            (including Subterranean lithic
                              S2    Artificial subterranean spaces         systems, Subterranean
                                                                           freshwaters, Anthropogenic
                                                                           subterranean freshwaters and
                                                                           Subterranean tidal systems)
SF1     Subterranean          SF1   Subterranean freshwaters
        freshwaters




                                                                                                          11
SF2    Anthropogenic         SF2   Artificial subterranean freshwaters
       subterranean
       freshwaters
SM1    Subterranean tidal    SM1 Subterranean tidal
       systems
TF1    Palustrine wetlands   TF1   Vegetated wetlands                        Palustrine wetlands

F1     Rivers and streams    F1    Rivers and streams                        Artificial fresh waters, Lakes,
                                                                             Rivers and streams
F2     Lakes                 F2    Lakes

F3     Artificial fresh      F3    Artificial wetlands
       waters
FM1    Semi-confined         FM1 Coastal inlets and lagoons                  Semi-confined transitional waters
       transitional waters
M1     Marine shelfs         M1    Marine shelf                              Marine shelfs

M2     Pelagic ocean         M2    Open ocean waters                         Pelagic ocean waters and Deep
       waters                                                                Sea floors
M3     Deep sea floors       M3    Deep sea floors

M4     Anthropogenic         M4    Artificial marine systems                 Anthropogenic marine systems
       marine systems
MT1    Shoreline systems     MT1 Shoreline systems                           Shoreline systems (including
                                                                             Anthropogenic shorelines) and
                                                                             supralittoral coastal systems
MT2  Supralittoral coastal MT2 Maritime vegetation
     systems
MT3 Anthropogenic          MT3 Artificial shorelines
     shorelines
MFT1 Brackish tidal        MFT1 Brackish tidal systems                       Brackish tidal systems
     systems

       Total = 24                  Total = 25                                Total = 15


Source: IUCN (2020). IUCN Global Ecosystem Typology 2.0. Available at
https://portals.iucn.org/library/sites/library/files/documents/2020-037-En.pdf

TNFD (2023). Recommendations of the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosure framework. Available
at: https://tnfd.global/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Recommendations_of_the_Taskforce_on_Nature-
related_Financial_Disclosures_September_2023.pdf?v=1695118661

As for the updated list of ecosystem components, they are shown in the table below.
Table 5: List of ecosystem components used in the updated ENCORE knowledge base

                                        ENCORE ecosystem
                                        components
                                        Atmosphere
                                        Land geomorphology
                                        Minerals
                                        Ocean geomorphology
                                        Soils and sediments
                                        Water
                                        Species populations
                                        Structural and biotic
                                        composition
                                        Total = 8




                                                                                                               12
Assessments of the relevance between ecosystem types and ecosystem components in the
provision of ecosystem services have also been added, with importance ratings of 1(relevant)
or 0 (not relevant) for provision of that service by a given ecosystem component in a given
ecosystem type. This new information provides a useful structure and it is recognized that it
will need further refinement in future. This could, for example, take the form of more granular
importance ratings for the relationships between ecosystem components and ecosystem
service within different ecosystem types, beyond the binary rating system currently applied.

  What it means for users:

  This update will allow users to explore what ecosystem components might be related to
  their dependencies and pressure in different types of ecosystems. It also provide more
  detailed information on the role of species and habitats.




2.5 Dependency and pressure links
As part of the updates, the SUSTAIN project reviewed and updated the links between 271
economic activities from ISIC and 25 ecosystem services from SEEA EA. This forms
ENCORE’s qualitative dependency database. Similarly, the team reviewed how the economic
activities exert pressures on nature. This forms ENCORE’s qualitative pressure database.
These links and descriptions only show the ecosystem services on which given economic
activities directly depend and the pressures these economic activities directly exert. Indirect
dependencies and pressures on nature are captured through value chain links (see section
2.7).

All qualitative links in the knowledge base have been updated and improved to reflect
increased granularity and to incorporate latest scientific research, as well as grey literature
(such as high-profile reports, industry association publications, company sustainability
reports, organisations’ websites). In response to user feedback, there is now a clear
distinction between instances where there is no link (N/A – Not Applicable) between an
economic activity and an ecosystem service (e.g. nuclear power production and animal-based
energy), and where there it is expected that there is a link but there is insufficient data or
references to determine the link (ND – No Data). In the previous version of the ENCORE
knowledge base, both cases were marked as N/A.

The qualitative links have undergone several stages of quality assurance by experts both from
organizations involved in SUSTAIN WP1 (UNEP-WCMC, IUCN, PBL, Capitals Coalition and ETH
Zürich). They were also reviewed by a group of industry experts from business and finance
coordinated by WBCSD and ShareAction.




                                                                                            13
   What it means for users:

   This update allows users to get access to more up-to-date information on potential
   dependencies and pressures, based on the latest scientific and grey literature. The
   qualitative links between economic activities, their dependencies and their pressures
   are more granular and the descriptions of the qualitative links are more tailored to the
   specific economic activities.




2.6 Materiality ratings
Materiality ratings methodology has been improved to enable comparison of the ratings
across economic activities and sectors. While in the 2018-2023 version of the ENCORE
knowledge base all materiality ratings were based on qualitative assessment only, the
materiality ratings in the updated knowledge base draw on quantitative environmental data
where possible.

Materiality ratings in ENCORE aim to provide users with an indication of the significance of
the potential nature-related dependencies and pressures identified for their economic
activities. For the purposes of the ENCORE knowledge base, the term “material” is interpreted
as synonymous to significant or important to consider in the decision-making process. This
is in line with the definition of the term in the Natural Capital Protocol. In other contexts,
“materiality” of dependencies and impacts may be defined through the requirements of
investors or other stakeholders that a company may be reporting to, or it may be defined
based on fiduciary or regulatory requirements. For the avoidance of doubt, these dimensions
were not considered in the development of the ENCORE materiality ratings.

Similar to the previous version, the updated ENCORE materiality ratings use the rating scale
of Very High (VH), High (H), Medium (M), Low (L) and Very Low (VL). It is important to note
that the ratings indicate materiality of dependencies and pressures at the global level. These
ratings should only serve to inform initial screening, which should be followed by spatially
explicit and company-specific assessments to understand the actual dependencies and
pressures of the given company.

Where there was sufficient data available, the materiality ratings now draw on quantitative
environmental indicators, primarily from the Environmentally-Extended Multi-Regional Input-
Output (EE-MRIO) database developed by ETH Zürich based on EXIOBASE version 3.6. Where
no suitable quantitative data were available in the EE-MRIO or other sources, qualitative
assessments have been carried out to complement or substitute the quantitative data. Each
materiality rating is therefore based on a set of quantitative or qualitative indicators. In some
cases, we followed a blended approach with a combination of quantitative and a qualitative
assessment of pressures and dependencies. As a result, there are three types of
methodologies that were used to assess materiality in the updated ENCORE knowledge
base:
   1. Dependency materiality ratings
            a. Using qualitative assessment only – 16 ratings
            b. Using a blended (mixed methods) methodology – 9 ratings
            c. Using quantitative data only – 0 ratings
   2. Pressure materiality ratings


                                                                                              14
             a. Using quantitative data only – 7 ratings
             b. Using a blended (mixed methods) methodology – 6 ratings
             c. Using qualitative assessment only – 0 ratings

An overview of which dependency materiality ratings were developed using a quantitative,
qualitative and blended methodology can be found in Table 6 below. An overview of which
pressure materiality ratings were developed using a quantitative approach and which ones
were developed using a blended approach can be found in Table 7 below.

Table 6: Overview of methodologies used for different dependency materiality ratings included in the updated
ENCORE knowledge base
Dependency materiality ratings that were assessed using a qualitative methodology
Genetic material services
Other provisioning services - Animal-based energy*
Global climate regulation services

Rainfall pattern regulation services (at sub-continental scale)
Local (micro and meso) climate regulation services
Air filtration services

Soil and sediment retention services
Solid waste remediation
Water purification services

Flood mitigation services
Storm mitigation services
Noise attenuation services
Biological control services

Nursery population and habitat maintenance services
Other regulating and maintenance service - Dilution by atmosphere and ecosystems
Other regulating and maintenance service - Mediation of sensory impacts (other than noise)
Recreation-related services
Visual amenity services
Education, scientific and research services
Spiritual, artistic and symbolic services
Dependency materiality ratings that were assessed using a blended methodology (combination of
quantitative and qualitative assessment)
Biomass provisioning services
Water supply
Soil quality regulation services
Water flow regulation services
Pollination services

Table 7: Overview of methodologies used for different pressure materiality ratings included in the updated ENCORE
knowledge base
Pressure materiality ratings that were assessed using a quantitative methodology
Emissions of GHGs
Emissions of non-GHG air pollutants

Other biotic resource extraction (e.g. fish, timber)
Other abiotic resource extraction
Generation and release of solid waste



                                                                                                               15
Area of land use
Volume of water use

Pressure materiality ratings that were assessed using a qualitative methodology
Disturbances (e.g. noise, light)
Area of freshwater use
Area of seabed use
Emissions of toxic pollutants to water and soil
Emissions of nutrient pollutants to water and soil
Introduction of invasive species


2.6.1 Qualitative assessment methodology
All qualitative assessments that fed into qualitative or blended materiality ratings were
conducted using the Delphi consensus building method. This approach was also used to
assign materiality ratings in the 2018-2023 version of ENCORE. It involved the following
steps:

    1. Each combination of economic activity – ecosystem service or economic activity –
       pressure was assessed against specified questions. Qualitative materiality ratings
       used two questions (see Box 1 and 2 below) and blended materiality ratings typically
       used one qualitative question, which would be combined with a score determined
       based on quantitative data.
    2. Two researchers independently assessed each combination of economic activity with
       ecosystem service or pressure, assigning a score from 1 to 3 depending on the
       response. Each researcher was from a different partner organization involved in
       SUSTAIN WP1: UNEP-WCMC, IUCN, Capitals Coalition, PBL and ETH Zurich.
    3. An automated formula was used to compare the mismatches in ratings assigned by
       the two researchers. Where the qualitative approach was used for several questions,
       the mismatches would be checked at the level of the resulting ratings, not for each
       score feeding into the rating.
    4. All identified mismatches were discussed in a meeting with the two researchers
       present, to determine what the final score or materiality rating should be.
    5. All qualitative and blended materiality ratings went through a quality assurance
       process within UNEP-WCMC, where additional technical experts reviewed the ratings.
       The ratings were also shared for review by a group of industry experts from business
       and finance convened by WBCSD and ShareAction.

 Box 1: Questions used to guide the qualitative assessment of dependency materiality ratings

 The dependency materiality ratings are intended to reflect the magnitude of the reliance of an economic activity
 on the given ecosystem service. In other words, how affected would an economic activity be if the ecosystem
 stops providing the ecosystem service or benefit, or the provision of these were disrupted.

 The assessment of the magnitude of the reliance was broken down into the following two questions, each
 focusing on a different determinant of the level of reliance:

 Question 1: How significant is the loss of functionality in the economic activity if the ecosystem service is
 disrupted?
      •   Limited loss of functionality: The economic activity can continue as is or with minor modifications.
      •   Moderate loss of functionality: The economic activity can continue only with important modifications
          (e.g., slower production or use of substitutes).
      •   Severe loss of functionality: Disruption in the service provision prevents the economic activity.




                                                                                                               16
Question 2: What is the financial cost to the economic activity of adapting to the disruption of the ecosystem
service?
    •    Low financial cost: Adaptation to the disruption of the ecosystem services will represent a minor cost
         to an average company engaging in the economic activity, which will not significantly affect the
         financial position of the company in the long run.
    •    Moderate financial cost: Adaptation to the disruption in the ecosystem service will represent a
         relatively significant cost to an average company engaging in the economic activity, but the cost would
         not affect the financial viability of the economic activity for the company.
    •    Severe financial cost: Adaptation to the disruption in the ecosystem service will have a significant
         effect on the financial viability of the economic activity for an average company engaging in the
         economic activity.

The responses to the questions above were assigned a score of 1-3 as follows:

 Score                 Functionality loss                               Financial cost
 1                     Limited loss of functionality                    Low financial cost
 2                     Moderate loss of functionality                   Moderate financial cost
 3                     Severe loss of functionality                     Severe financial cost

The scores assigned based on the two questions were summed and a total score from 2 to 6 obtained. This
total score was then translated into grades on the VL-VH rating scale as follows:

                        Sum of scores                                         Materiality rating
                              2                                                       VL
                              3                                                        L
                              4                                                       M
                              5                                                       H
                              6                                                       VH



Box 3: Questions used to guide the qualitative assessment of pressure materiality ratings

Pressure materiality ratings are intended to reflect the magnitude of the pressure exerted by the economic
activity (e.g. volume of pollutants emitted, area size used).

To enable comparability of the pressure materiality ratings across sectors and economic activities, the ratings
drawing on quantitative data were assigned based on per 1 EUR of output values (e.g. volume of pollutants
emitted per 1 EUR of output, not the total volume of pollutants emitted by the economic activity in a year). This
accounts for the fact that economic activities and sectors in ISIC (or other industry classifications) are not
defined to be equivalent in size.

Our approach to qualitative assessment of pressure materiality ratings was designed to mirror the methodology
used for the quantitative pressure materiality ratings. The assessment of the pressure materiality was broken
down into the following two questions:

Question 1: What is the size of the economic activity’s total financial output per year?
       •        Low output
       •        Medium output
       •        High output

To reduce human error, the response to this question was determined automatically based on the total output
value from EE-MRIO. The output value is the total sales or production output of the sector in million Euros. The
three levels (Low, Medium, High) were calculated by taking the total output values for all EXIOBASE activities
and splitting them into three intervals.

Question 2: What is the typical magnitude of the pressure created by the economic activity in a year?
        •        High magnitude: The pressure caused by this economic activity is severe.
        •        Medium magnitude: The pressure caused by this economic activity is relatively significant.
        •        Low magnitude: The pressure caused by this economic activity is minor.




                                                                                                               17
 The responses to the questions above were assigned scores of 1-3 as follows:

                    Size of financial output of the economic
  Score                                                            Typical pressure magnitude
                    activity
          1         High output                                    Low magnitude
          2         Medium output                                  Medium magnitude
          3         Low output                                     High magnitude

 Unlike for the qualitative dependency materiality ratings where the two questions were given equal weight in
 determining the final materiality rating, for the pressure materiality ratings the magnitude question was given a
 greater weight than the size of the economic activity.

 The weighted approach was tested on pressures for which quantitative data was available, to compare whether
 the qualitative methodology is likely to yield similar ratings. Based on this testing, the weighting of 3:1 was found
 to be most closely aligned with the quantitative approach, meaning the magnitude of the pressure was given
 three times more weight than the size of the economic activity.

 After applying the 3:1 ratio to the scores, the total score from 4 to 12 is obtained. The lowest score is 4 and the
 highest one is 12. The total score is then translated into grades on the VL-VH rating scale as follows:

                Total score                                              Materiality rating
                      4                                                         VL
                      5                                                          L
                      6                                                          L
                      7                                                         M
                      8                                                         M
                      9                                                          H
                      10                                                         H
                      11                                                        VH
                      12                                                        VH

2.6.2 Materiality ratings for the cultural ecosystem services
The materiality rating of Very High (VH) was assigned to all cultural ecosystem services
(Recreation-related services; Visual amenity services; Education, scientific and research
services; and Spiritual, artistic and symbolic services) across all economic activities that were
identified as depending on them. Our review of existing literature on the relationship between
specific economic activities and cultural ecosystem services has shown that further
consolidation in the scientific community is needed to establish a recognised approach for
how the materiality of the dependencies on these ecosystem services for specific economic
activities should be assessed. ENCORE users are encouraged to prioritise the cultural
ecosystem services as potentially likely highly material as they have complex societal and
economic implications.


2.6.3 Quantitative materiality ratings

For the ratings using a fully quantitative methodology, the materiality ratings were assigned
based on a set of quantitative indicators from EE-MRIO or other sources. For example, the
materiality rating for the pressure of Volume of water use was assigned based on a set of
water withdrawal and water consumption indicators from EE-MRIO. Another example is the
materiality rating for the pressure of Area of land use, which in addition to EE-MRIO also uses
area use data from several global studies of land use footprint of different economic sectors
and activities.




                                                                                                                    18
The materiality ratings were assigned based on the per 1 EUR of output values (e.g. volume
of GHGs emitted per 1 EUR of output produced by the economic activity). Any economic
activities with values that are more than three standard deviations above from the mean were
identified as outliers and assigned a Very High materiality rating. Any economic activities with
values that are more than three standard deviations below the mean were identified as outliers
and assigned a Very Low materiality rating. The remaining values were split into the five
grades on the rating scale (Very Low, Low, Medium, High, Very High) using a natural breaks
method. Mean was calculated as the average value of the economic activities included in the
calculations (i.e. economic activities linked to the dependency or pressure in question in the
qualitative desk review).
More detailed overview of the methodologies used to assign the quantitative materiality
ratings will be made available in the second half of 2024.
2.6.4 Blended materiality ratings

There are five dependency materiality ratings using a blended methodology, which combines
quantitative indicators from EE-MRIO or other sources with qualitative assessment. They
include Biomass provisioning services, Water supply, Soil quality regulation, Water flow
regulation and Pollination services. For these dependency materiality ratings, there were
quantitative indicators that enabled assessing how significant would be the loss of
functionality for the economic activity if the ecosystem service is disrupted (e.g. data on the
amount of biomass or volume of water used by an economic activity per 1 EUR of output).
Qualitative assessment was used to assess additional aspects (e.g. what would be the
financial cost to the economic activity if it needed to replace the ecosystem service).

More detailed overview of the methodologies used to assign the blended materiality ratings
will be made available in the second half of 2024.




   What it means for users:

   ENCORE materiality ratings can be used to screen dependencies and pressures that
   are likely to be significant before conducting a more detailed assessment. The
   improvements to the materiality ratings methodologies included in these updates
   enable use of the ratings for comparisons of materiality of a certain potential
   dependency or pressure across economic activities and sectors. Where possible, the
   materiality ratings now draw on quantitative environmental data. Where suitable
   quantitative environmental data was not available, a robust qualitative assessment
   methodology was used. In addition to increased comparability and reliability, the level
   of granularity in the ratings has increased too. Materiality ratings are now available for
   271 economic activities at ISIC Level 3 or 4.




2.7 Value chain links
This is a new functionality of the ENCORE knowledge base that directly responds to
user feedback. The updated ENCORE knowledge base contains a list of key



                                                                                                19
upstream and downstream value chain links (two tiers upstream and two tiers
downstream) for all 271 economic activities for which dependencies and impacts
have been identified and materiality ratings assigned.

Table 8: Terminology used for the value chain links and extent of coverage.
                     N-2                 Second upstream tier. Supplies to N-1.
Upstream
                     N-1                 First upstream tier. Supplies to N.
Direct               N                   Direct economic activity
                     N+1                 First downstream tier. Consumes output from N.
Downstream
                     N+2                 Second downstream tier. Consumes output from N+1.


Data on value chain links is based on the Environmentally-Extended Multi-Regional Input-
Output database (EE-MRIO) developed by ETH Zürich, which is based on EXIOBASE (version
3.6). The links within the input-output database reflect the trade flows between different sub-
sectors. Note that what is shown as an important link in terms of the trade flows may differ
from what would be considered to be an important link based on the commodity or product
life cycle.

The EE-MRIO data was converted to ISIC using an EXIOBASE-NACE-ISIC crosswalk (which is
also available with the data files, see Section 9 below). While the direct operations economic
activities are captured in the ENCORE knowledge base using ISIC Level 3 or 4, upstream and
downstream links are shown using ISIC Level 2. This is because Level 2 of ISIC provides the
best match with the EXIOBASE classification.

The value chain links are provided for two tiers upstream and two tiers downstream from the
direct operations. Adding more tiers would risk showing a large proportion of the economy in
the value chain of each economic activity, rendering the information too complex to use.

To make the database more manageable, the ENCORE knowledge base shows only key value
chain links, not all value chain links. Only the top five links are included for each tier (i.e., for
one direct economic activity, up to five N-1 links and up to 25 N-2 links are shown). These top
five links were selected based on their value added as provided in the EE-MRIO.




                                                                                                  20
    What it means for users:

    ENCORE users will be able to see the key upstream and downstream value chain
    links associated with an economic activity in question. This will allow them to start
    exploring dependencies and pressures are associated with activities. For many
    companies, the most material dependencies and impacts are found in their value
    chain and not in direct operations.

    The focus on top five value chain links enables presenting the information in a user-
    friendly format. It will be useful for companies beginning to assess nature-related
    dependencies and impacts in their value chains.

    Companies with more advanced analytical capacities will be able to apply the
    EXIOBASE-ISIC crosswalk developed for the purposes of the updated ENCORE
    knowledge base and the full input-output data from EE-MRIO or EXIOBASE to map all
    value chain links that are likely to be included in their value chain.




   3. Crosswalk tables
Along with other materials, the following crosswalks are provided to help users align data
between the previous and updated versions of the ENCORE knowledge base, and between
ENCORE and other tools and frameworks:
   • GICS® + ENCORE’s bespoke production processes to ISIC industry classification.
   • Ecosystem services from 2018-2023 version of the ENCORE knowledge base (based
      on CICES v4.3) to ecosystem services categorization used in the updated ENCORE
      knowledge base (based on SEEA EA).
   • List of impact drivers used in the 2018-2023 version of the ENCORE knowledge base
      to list of pressures used in the updated ENCORE knowledge base.
   • EXIOBASE to NACE to ISIC crosswalk developed for the purposes of the updated
      ENCORE knowledge base by merging existing EXIOBASE to NACE and NACE to ISIC
      crosswalks.

All the crosswalk tables are available for download from the Methodology & Downloads tab
of the website. Please note that you will need to be logged in to access the download link.
Creating an account on the ENCORE website is free.

   4. Other notes
Do you have any questions that were not answered in this note? Please check our FAQ
document (also available on the Methodology & Downloads tab).

  5. Limitations
As any similar tool or methodology, the updated ENCORE knowledge base and the
methodology behind it have some limitations. Some of these could be addressed through
future research and development of ENCORE, others are inherent to this type of a screening
tool.




                                                                                            21
Qualitative links between economic activities and ecosystem services, and economic
activities and pressures
The links between economic activities and ecosystem services and between economic
activities and pressures documented in the updated ENCORE knowledge base are high-level,
global links. Therefore, where there is a dependency or a pressure link recorded for an
economic activity, it does not mean that all firms engaging in that activity have that
dependency or exert that pressure. ENCORE is designed as a screening tool showing potential
dependencies and impacts. All users are encouraged to delve deeper and assess their actual
dependencies and impacts on nature, taking into consideration the context of their company
and characteristics of locations where they have direct operations or value chain links.

Value chain links
As described in Section 8 above, the value chain links shown in the updated ENCORE
knowledge base are taken from the EE-MRIO based on EXIOBASE. They do not show all value
chain links that an economic activity has, only the key links based on the value added data in
the EE-MRIO database. Since the data only shows two tiers upstream and two tiers
downstream, the data may not reach the point of extraction or primary production. For
example, for direct economic activity Wholesale of food, beverages and tobacco, the activity of
Growing of fibre crops will not appear in the N-1 or N-2 value chain links provided by the ENCORE
knowledge base because it is more than two steps removed. Extending the value chain links
coverage for key sectors will be one of the areas for potential future research and
development of the ENCORE tool. In the meantime, users are encouraged to add or extend
value chain links in their own assessments as relevant.


Fossil fuels
In the updated ENCORE knowledge base, stocks of fossil fuels (e.g., coal, gas, oil) are not
considered as part of natural capital’s stock of abiotic resources. Economic activities
dependencies and impacts on the stocks of coal, gas, oil and other fossil fuels are therefore
not captured in the qualitative links or materiality ratings.

Materiality ratings
The updated ENCORE knowledge base allows users to compare materiality ratings for a given
dependency or pressure across multiple economic sectors and activities. However, the
ratings are not designed to enable comparisons across different ecosystem services or
pressures.

As an example, users of the updated ENCORE knowledge base will be able to say that the
economic activity Growing of rice tends to use more water than the economic activity
Manufacture of plastics per 1 EUR of output. However, users seeing that the economic activity
Growing of rice has VH materiality rating for the pressure of Volume of water use and VL
materiality rating for the pressure of introducing invasive species, will not be able to say how
much more material the water use is for the Growing of rice economic activity compared to
the pressure of introducing invasive species. This reflects the recognition that there is no
consistent hierarchy between pressures or ecosystem services – while some pressures or
ecosystem services may appear more important to address in certain contexts or locations,
in other cases the relative priority between them may be completely different. ENCORE users
are encouraged to consider this limitation when interpreting the materiality ratings.




                                                                                              22
Where quantitative indicators were used, the calculations of materiality ratings were done
using values per 1 EUR of output. This enabled comparability of the materiality across sectors
and economic activities. In ISIC, similarly to other industry classifications, economic activities
are not defined to be consistent in size (neither size of the turnover nor number of companies
included). Since the per 1 EUR of output values were used, some economic activities with the
same absolute quantities of pressures exerted may be assigned different materiality ratings.
For some ecosystems and pressures that are linked to a small number of economic activities,
not all materiality rating scale grades are represented. For example, in the ecosystem service
of Other provisioning services - Animal-based energy, there are no economic activities that have
a High or Very High materiality rating.

The materiality ratings indicate typical level of materiality at global level. The actual materiality
of dependencies and impacts is likely to vary significantly based on the specific context,
company and location that is assessed.

Water supply ecosystem service
The SEEA EA definition of the water supply ecosystem service states that the service "reflects
the combined ecosystem contributions of water flow regulation, water purification, and other
ecosystem services to the supply of water of appropriate quality to users for various uses
including household consumption" (SEEA EA, 2021). When interpreting the dependency data
and ratings from ENCORE, we encourage users to consider that water supply represents a final
ecosystem service that combines other water-related ecosystem services also captured in
ENCORE. As these ecosystem services are designed to overlap in the SEEA EA categorisation,
users should consider excluding the water supply ecosystem service from their analyses
where this may cause duplication.

When describing an economic activity’s dependency on the water supply ecosystem service,
we encourage users to refer to ecosystems as “providing the ecosystem service of regulating
water quantity” or “providing the water quantity regulation ecosystem service”. The wording
“water provision” or “ecosystems supply water” are occasionally used as a shorthand but
these statements are not scientifically correct and could be misleading. Ecosystems do not
generate, produce, or provide water, they support the regulation of quality and quantity of
water throughout the water cycle.



Dependency on water supply, water purification and water flow regulation ecosystem
services
Following a precautionary approach, in this knowledge base, an economic activity is described
as dependent on the water supply, water purification and water flow regulation ecosystem
services both if the activity extracts water from the ecosystem itself and if the activity uses
piped water (e.g., provided through municipal means). Scientific and grey literature reviewed
for the purposes of determining the dependency links do not always differentiate between an
economic activity's consumption of water that it directly extracted or that has been supplied
to it. The data from the EE-MRIO database that was used to calculate the dependency
materiality ratings for water-related ecosystem services also does not differentiate between
water that has been directly extracted by the economic activity and water that has been
supplied to it.




                                                                                                  23
Location specificity
The knowledge base was not developed using location-specific information. All users are
encouraged to integrate, apply and adapt the broad information gathered here for their own
individual use case. Shifting supply chains to a different country to manage impacts on natural
capital assets is also not captured in this framework, but these mitigation efforts could be
captured in individual risk assessments by financial institutions or businesses.


Data coverage
Possible data sources are collected and curated in a wide variety of languages worldwide. As
such, it is unlikely that all available data sources have been identified.


Data currency
The data sources identified in the updated ENCORE knowledge base represent the best
available data at the time the research was conducted (2023-2024). However, websites
providing access to data sources may not be accessible indefinitely and more up-to-date
datasets may become available.


Technical skills
Many of the spatial data sources identified within the inventories may require technical skills
or Geographical Information Systems knowledge to use.


Industry classification coverage
The ENCORE knowledge base on natural capital dependencies and impacts currently uses a
list of economic activities drawn from the UN’s International Standard Industrial Classification
of All Economic Activities (ISIC). It is recognised that many financial institutions and
businesses use other classification systems. ENCORE now provides crosswalks for ISIC to
some other classifications (e.g., NACE and GICS®). However, it is recognized that it does not
yet support all major industry classifications.


Opportunities
The ENCORE knowledge base currently provides information on dependencies and impacts
associated with different economic activities. However, it does not yet cover opportunities
related to companies’ interactions with nature.




                                                                                             24
