            Frequently Asked Questions on the updated ENCORE
                             knowledge base
                                                                                                           Prepared by: UNEP-WCMC
                                                                                                                    Date: June 2024


The purpose of this document is to help users with the most commonly asked questions about
the ENCORE knowledge base.

Further information about the updated ENCORE knowledge base is provided in the Explanatory
Note.

Questions
1. What is ENCORE, who manages it and who developed the updated ENCORE knowledge
base? ............................................................................................................................................... 2
2. When will the updates be available on the website?................................................................ 2
3. Will the file format of the knowledge base change? ................................................................ 3
4. Is the updated ENCORE knowledge base available for free? .................................................. 3
5. How often will the ENCORE knowledge base be updated? ..................................................... 3
6. Is the ENCORE biodiversity module also being updated? ....................................................... 3
7. Can I still access the 2018-2023 version of the ENCORE knowledge base after the full
launch of the updated ENCORE knowledge base? ....................................................................... 3
8. Who is the target audience of ENCORE and the updated knowledge base? ......................... 3
9. What is changing and what is new? .......................................................................................... 3
10. Why is the ENCORE knowledge base undergoing an update? .............................................. 5
11. I was already using ENCORE, how do I convert from the categorizations used in the
2018-2023 version of the ENCORE to the updated ENCORE knowledge base? ........................ 6
12. What are the new concepts and how do they differ from the previous version? ................ 7
13. Why was ISIC selected as the industry classification for ENCORE? .................................... 9
14. What does it mean that the updated ENCORE knowledge base shows only "key" value
chain links? .................................................................................................................................... 10
15. Which materiality ratings were assessed using quantitative indicators and which were
assessed using the qualitative methodology? ........................................................................... 10
16. Why are the updated materiality ratings different from the previous ones?...................... 10
17. I want to design/develop a tool based on the improved ENCORE’s knowledge base, what
are the licence requirements to use it? ....................................................................................... 16
18. How does the updated ENCORE knowledge base relate to the SBTN Materiality
Screening Tool? ............................................................................................................................ 16



                                                                                                                                                     1
1. What is ENCORE, who manages it and who developed the updated
ENCORE knowledge base?
ENCORE (Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks and Exposure) is a free, online tool
that helps organisations explore their exposure to nature-related risk and take the first steps
to understand their dependencies and impacts on nature. It allows users to scope and identify
priorities for further analysis. ENCORE is a key tool, referenced by leading corporate
frameworks and standards, such as the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures
(TNFD), the Science Based Targets Network (SBTN) and the GRI Standards. It is also widely
used in macroeconomic studies of nature-related risks.

The ENCORE tool was developed in 2018 by Global Canopy, UNEP FI and UNEP-WCMC, who
together form the ENCORE Partnership, previously known as The Natural Capital Finance
Alliance (NCFA). ENCORE Partnership maintains and continually improves the ENCORE tool.
The update of the ENCORE knowledge base released in Q3 2024 has been developed as part
of the Horizon Europe project “Strengthening Understanding and Strategies of Business to
Assess and Integrate Nature (SUSTAIN)”. The organisations involved in the technical
developments and quality assurance of the data were: UN Environment Programme World
Conservation Monitoring Centre (UNEP-WCMC), the Capitals Coalition, the Netherlands
Environmental Assessment Agency (PBL), the International Union for the Conservation of
Nature (IUCN), IUCN Europe and Eidgenoessische Technische Hochschule Zürich (ETH
Zürich). Other SUSTAIN project partners include Oxford Sustainable Finance Group, WBCSD,
ShareAction and Fundación Biodiversidad.

The research conducted under the SUSTAIN project enabled updating and enhancing the
ENCORE knowledge base. The improvements are in line with the evolving finance-business-
nature nexus and associated user needs and feedback. The enhanced knowledge base is
aimed primarily at businesses, financial institutions and regulatory bodies to support their
screening of potential dependencies and impacts on biodiversity and ecosystem services. As
before, ENCORE covers a broad range of sectors and economic activities at the global
level. The data have been updated by drawing on the latest scientific research and grey
literature.


2. When will the updates be available on the website?
From July 2024 onwards, users will be able to download the updated ENCORE knowledge
base in .csv format from the ENCORE website (see here). This includes the following
materials:

   •   Updated ENCORE knowledge base (consisting of multiple .csv files)
   •   Explanatory Note
   •   Crosswalk tables
   •   FAQ (this document)


Companies and financial institutions can now access the new ENCORE knowledge base via
downloadable spreadsheets – for offline analysis – with the updates set to be embedded into
an enhanced version of the online platform due for release later this year.




                                                                                             2
3. Will the file format of the knowledge base change?
The updated ENCORE knowledge base is available for download in .csv files, similarly to the
previous version.

4. Is the updated ENCORE knowledge base available for free?
ENCORE will remain a free, online tool that helps organisations explore their exposure to
nature-related risk and take the first steps to understand their dependencies and impacts on
nature. To access the entirety of the functionalities and download the data, users will be
required to register a free account as they do currently.


5. How often will the ENCORE knowledge base be updated?
The ENCORE Partners (Global Canopy, UNEP FI and UNEP-WCMC) maintain the ENCORE tool
and continually make minor improvements to the knowledge base behind it. No major
changes to the natural capital knowledge base are anticipated for the foreseeable future. You
can find information on current ENCORE funding and associated development priorities on
the About ENCORE page.

6. Is the ENCORE biodiversity module also being updated?
No, this round of updates to the knowledge base only relates to the Natural Capital Module.

7. Can I still access the 2018-2023 version of the ENCORE knowledge
base after the full launch of the updated ENCORE knowledge base?
Yes, the archived 2018-2023 version of the ENCORE knowledge base will remain available for
download from the Data & Methodology section of the ENCORE website.

8. Who is the target audience of ENCORE and the updated knowledge
base?
The ENCORE tool and updated knowledge base remain targeted towards businesses, financial
institutions and regulators to help them understand their impacts and dependencies on
nature.

9. What is changing and what is new?
There are seven main improvements into the updated ENCORE knowledge base, more
information can be found in the Explanatory Note. These are:
    • Added granularity for economic sectors. The previous knowledge base offered 92
       production processes within 152 sub-industries, based on the Global Industry
       Classification Standard (GICS®), while the updated version will provide dependencies
       and impacts for 270 economic activities, based on the International Standard
       Industrial Classification for All Economic Activities (ISIC).
    • An updated and expanded list of ecosystem services. The previous ecosystem
       services were drawn from the Common International Classification of Ecosystem
       Services (CICES). The improved version includes the ecosystem services of Level 1 of
       the System of Environmental-Economic Accounting – Ecosystem Accounting (SEEA-
       EA). This also includes the addition of the Cultural Ecosystem Services (CES), which
       the previous version did not have.
    • Improved clarity on the        structure of the impact pathway. “Impact drivers“ and
       “Drivers of environmental change” were renamed to "Pressures" and "Mechanisms of



                                                                                              3
    change in state" to be in line with the Driver-Pressure-State-Impact-Response
    framework. What falls under "Pressures" (e.g. GHG emissions, area of freshwater use,
    generation and release of solid waste) and "Mechanisms of change in state" (e.g.,
    diseases, flooding, pollutants concentration change) was revised to ensure different
    potential impact pathways are captured and to reduce duplication. The two-step
    process was maintained, to enable more detail to be captured in the knowledge base
    structure (e.g., one pressure can exacerbate multiple mechanisms). The pressures
    (previously ‘Impact drivers’) are a measurable quantity of substances (i.e., emissions),
    physical and biological agents, use of resources and use of land that are associated
    with inputs or outputs of an economic activity. The pressures then trigger the
    mechanisms, which cause changes in the state of ecosystems and their components.
    This may in turn result in changes to the capacity of nature (natural capital) to provide
    social and economic benefits.
•   Added detail on the biodiversity aspects of the knowledge base. The previous
    knowledge base had links with natural capital assets (i.e., habitats, atmosphere,
    minerals, etc). The improved knowledge base includes links with ecosystem
    components (i.e., species populations, land geomorphology, structural and biotic
    integrity, etc.), and ecosystem types (e.g., desert and semi-deserts, palustrine
    wetlands, marine shelfs).
•   Updated information on dependencies and impacts, drawing on the latest scientific
    research and grey literature, totalling over 10,000 links across the whole knowledge
    base.
•   Inclusion of quantitative data to underpin the materiality ratings. The improved
    knowledge base includes dependency materiality ratings and pressure materiality
    ratings, which are based on quantitative data and comparable across sectors, to the
    extent possible with existing data. The current version of ENCORE offers materiality
    ratings that are based on a qualitative assessment only.
•   Coverage of value chain links. The improved knowledge base offers two levels
    upstream and two levels downstream of the value chain for each of the 271 direct
    economic activities.




                                                                                           4
Table 1. Summary of the changes between the 2018-2023 version of the ENCORE knowledge base and the updated
knowledge base.

    2018-2023 version of the ENCORE
                                           Updated ENCORE knowledge base
    knowledge base
      ®
1 GICS Industry Classification             ISIC Industry Classification

                                           Ecosystem services from SEEA-EA Level 1 (including
2 Ecosystem services from CICES            cultural ecosystem services)

    Impact drivers                         Pressures
3
    Drivers of environmental change        Mechanisms of change in state

                                           Natural capital divided into ecosystem types (biomes) and
4 No biome-specific information            ecosystem components

  Qualitative links drawing on literature All qualitative links in the knowledge base have been
5 available in 2018                       updated using latest scientific research and grey literature

  All materiality ratings based on
                                           Comparability of materiality ratings across sectors, some
  qualitative assessment only, with
6 limited comparability of ratings         pressures materiality ratings draw on quantitative
                                           indicators to the extent possible
  across sectors

  Direct potential dependencies and
7 impacts only                             Inclusion of downstream and upstream value chain links




10. Why is the ENCORE knowledge base undergoing an update?
The previous version of the ENCORE knowledge base was developed between 2015 and 2018.
New research on dependencies and impacts of economic activities has since become
available. The updated ENCORE knowledge reflects this latest data, academic literature and
grey literature (see the Intro section of the Explanatory Note for more information).

Since the previous version of the ENCORE knowledge base was developed, new
categorizations have also been proposed by the scientific community for applications by
business and economic research. For example, the UN System of Environmental Economic
Accounting – Ecosystem Accounting (SEEA-EA) proposed a new categorization for
ecosystem services. This has been adopted by other frameworks and methodologies for use
by business and finance and is now integrated into the updated ENCORE knowledge base as
well (see Section 2.2 of the Explanatory Note for more information).

The updates also respond to the feedback received from users throughout the years since
ENCORE was first launched. All the improvements have been made to address users'
concerns. For example, the previous version of the ENCORE knowledge base used GICS® for
the categorisation of sectors and sub-industries. The GICS® sub-industries were further
broken down into production processes, which were defined for the purpose of building the
ENCORE knowledge base. As the production processes were based on a custom list and did
not draw on a systematic industry classification, users were not always sure which production
process was relevant for a given company. The change to ISIC will allow financial institutions,
businesses, and regulators to more accurately screen their potential impacts and




                                                                                                         5
dependencies on nature users, with both greater standardization and added granularity (see
Section 2.1 of the Explanatory Note for more information).

Another common comment received is the lack of information on value chain links, which is
of great interest to many users. The upstream and downstream value chain links to the
knowledge base respond to this feedback (see Section 2.7 of the Explanatory Note for more
information).

Another frequent point of feedback from users is a request to access more detailed
information on species and habitats. The addition of ecosystem types and components to the
knowledge base respond to this to help the ENCORE users’ to further understand the
differences in impacts and dependencies between different types of ecosystems (see Section
2.4 of the Explanatory Note for more information).

11. I was already using ENCORE, how do I convert from the
categorizations used in the 2018-2023 version of the ENCORE to the
updated ENCORE knowledge base?
As part of the files available for download with the updated ENCORE knowledge base,
crosswalk tables are provided that will help match the categorizations used in the 2018-2023
version of the ENCORE knowledge base and the 2024 version of the ENCORE knowledge base.
These include:

   •   Crosswalk between GICS® industry classification (including ENCORE’s tailored
       production processes) and ISIC industry classification.
   •   Crosswalk between ecosystem services categorization used in the 2018-2023 version
       of ENCORE (based on CICES 4.3) and ecosystem services categorization used in the
       2024 version of the ENCORE knowledge base (based on SEEA–EA Level 1).
   •   Crosswalk between the list of impact drivers used in the 2018-2023 version of ENCORE
       knowledge base and the list of pressures used in the 2024 version of the ENCORE
       knowledge base.

Please note that you will need to be logged in to access the download link. Creating an account
on the ENCORE website is free.




                                                                                             6
12. What are the new concepts and how do they differ from the previous version?
Table 2 below provides definitions of the key terms used in the updated ENCORE knowledge base.
Table 2. The list of key concepts and definitions for use in the improved knowledge base.

Key concept         Definition for use in ENCORE’s improved knowledge base                                                   References
Dependencies        Aspects of ecosystem services that an organization or other actor relies on to function. This            Adapted from:
                                                                                                                             Science Based Targets Network (2023). SBTN Glossary of
                    includes ecosystems’ ability to regulate water flow, water quality, and hazards like fires and
                                                                                                                             Terms as referenced in Taskforce on Nature-related
                    floods; provide a suitable habitat for pollinators; sequester carbon and other services                  Financial Disclosure (2023). Glossary. Available at:
                    provided by ecosystems.                                                                                  https://tnfd.global/publication/glossary/

Ecosystem           The contributions of ecosystems to the benefits that are used in economic and other human System of Environmental- Economic Accounting (2021).
                                                                                                              System    of   Environmental-Economic  Accounting—
service             activity.
                                                                                                                             Ecosystem         Accounting.        Available      at:
                                                                                                                             https://seea.un.org/sites/seea.un.org/files/documents/
                                                                                                                             EA/seea_ea_white_cover_final.pdf

                                                                                                                             Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosure (2023).
                                                                                                                             Glossary.                   Available                   at:
                                                                                                                             https://tnfd.global/publication/glossary/
Ecosystem type      Categorization of ecosystems that reflects a distinct set of abiotic and biotic components               Adapted from:
                                                                                                                             System of Environmental- Economic Accounting (2021).
                    and their interactions.
                                                                                                                             System     of    Environmental-Economic       Accounting—
                                                                                                                             Ecosystem          Accounting.         Available        at:
                                                                                                                             https://seea.un.org/sites/seea.un.org/files/documents/
                                                                                                                             EA/seea_ea_white_cover_final.pdf
Impacts             Changes in the state of nature (natural capital), which may result in changes to the capacity            Adapted from:
                                                                                                                             Science Based Targets Network (2023). SBTN Glossary of
                    of nature (natural capital) to provide social and economic benefits. Impacts can be positive
                                                                                                                             Terms, Climate Disclosure Standards Board (2021).
                    or negative. They can be the result of an organisation's or another party's actions and can be           Application guidance for Biodiversity- related Disclosures.
                    direct, indirect or cumulative.                                                                          As referenced in Taskforce on Nature-related Financial
                                                                                                                             Disclosure      (2023).    Glossary.       Available    at:
                                                                                                                             https://tnfd.global/publication/glossary/

Materiality         An impact or dependency on natural capital is material if consideration of its value, as part of Natural Capital Coalition (2016). Natural Capital Protocol.
                                                                                                                     Available    at:   https://capitalscoalition.org/capitals-
                    the set of information used for decision making, has the potential to alter that decision.
                                                                                                                             approach/natural-capital-
                                                                                                                             protocol/?fwp_filter_tabs=guide_supplement
Mechanism of        Mechanism causing change in state of ecosystems and their components (natural capital).                  Definition developed for the purpose of the updated
                                                                                                                             ENCORE knowledge base.
change in state



                                                                                                                                                                                      7
Natural capital   The stock of renewable and non-renewable natural resources (e.g. plants, animals, air, water, Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosure (2023).
                                                                                                                Glossary           .            Available            at:
                  soils, minerals) that combine to yield a flow of benefits to people.
                                                                                                                       https://tnfd.global/publication/glossary/

                                                                                                                       Natural Capital Coalition, Natural Capital Finance
                                                                                                                       Alliance, VBDO (2018). Connecting Finance and Natural
                                                                                                                       Capital: A Supplement to the Natural Capital Protocol.
                                                                                                                       Available at: www.naturalcapitalcoalition.org

                                                                                                                       The Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on
                                                                                                                       Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (2020). Annex I:
                                                                                                                       Glossary of the Global assessment report on biodiversity
                                                                                                                       and ecosystem services of the Intergovernmental Science-
                                                                                                                       Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services.
                                                                                                                       Available at: https://zenodo.org/record/5657079#.Y-
                                                                                                                       4G4cfP1PY
Pressure          In line with the Driver-Pressure-State-Impact-Response (DPSIR) framework, the ENCORE                 Adapted from:
                                                                                                                       Science Based Targets Network (2023). SBTN Glossary of
                  knowledge base defines the term pressure as the use of a measurable quantity of a natural
                                                                                                                       Terms as referenced in Taskforce on Nature-related
                  resource or release of measurable quantity of substances, physical and biological agents.            Financial Disclosure (2023). Glossary. Available at:
                  The pressures trigger the mechanisms causing change in state of ecosystems and their                 https://tnfd.global/publication/glossary/
                  components. In ENCORE, these are all assumed to be negative, leading to potential
                  risks. Some initiatives, such as the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD)
                  or the Natural Capital Protocol, refer to pressures as “impact drivers” as it implies that
                  "impact drivers" can lead to either negative or positive impacts.




                                                                                                                                                                             8
13. Why was ISIC selected as the industry classification for ENCORE?
The updates included reviewing the approach to categorising economic activities. The
feedback received from users was that the use of GICS® sub-industries along with bespoke
production processes in ENCORE was challenging. This was for two reasons: 1) the
production processes were not formally part of GICS®, meaning the data often had to be
aggregated to GICS® sub-industry level; and 2) at the same time, the GICS® sub-industries
were not detailed enough for some users and were difficult to translate to other industry
classifications. A classification was needed that was more detailed, required less bespoke
elements to be added to it, and that could more easily be translated to other industry
classifications.

The transition from GICS® to ISIC was a decision made after assessing the strengths and
limitations of several available industry classifications. In consultation with the SUSTAIN
consortium partners, as well as Global Canopy and UNEP FI, the following rationale was
agreed for selecting ISIC as the industry classification for the improved ENCORE knowledge
base:

   •   Recognition and usability: The target users of ENCORE are businesses, financial
       institutions and regulators. ISIC was developed by the United Nations and is widely
       recognised by stakeholders from private and public sectors, including ENCORE’s
       target audiences. ISIC is commonly used as the basis for national industry
       classifications, for the development of tools and frameworks, and for statistical data
       collection/reporting. For example, it was used as the basis for the NACE industry
       classification framework developed by the EU. In addition, ISIC is also clear and easy
       to use. Finally, SBTN have moved to ISIC as well, which helps with consistency across
       the screening/target-setting/measurement landscape.
   •   Global range: Some industry classifications are country or region-focused. ISIC is
       intended to be used globally, which aligns with ENCORE's need of offering screening
       of potential impacts and dependencies for all economies across the world.
   •   Conversion: There are crosswalks available between ISIC and a large number of other
       industry classifications (see here).
   •   To address users' concerns: As noted above, the current version of ENCORE uses
       GICS® for the categorisation of sectors and sub-industries. However, the sub-
       industries are further broken down into production processes, which were defined for
       the purposes of the current ENCORE knowledge base. This has been pointed out as a
       weakness of the current ENCORE knowledge base by users in the past as the
       production processes are not formally part of GICS® and they are not seen as extensive
       enough. Additionally, there is no description for each production process, only the
       description of GICS® sub-industries. This is not a challenge with ISIC since it already
       has a description for each economic activity detailing what it includes and sometimes
       also what that activity excludes.
   •   Additional level of granularity: ISIC is a comprehensive and robust classification, and
       its levels provide further detail on economic activities to users. That way, users can
       not only find their desired economic activities more accurately within ISIC, but also the
       dependencies and impacts can include meaningful information with more granularity.
       For instance, current ENCORE has 92 production processes, the updated ENCORE
       knowledge base covers 270 economic activities in ISIC.
   •   Alignment with MRIO: The new version of the ENCORE knowledge base includes
       indirect dependencies and impacts on nature (as opposed to only direct ones in the
       current version of ENCORE). To do this, data from an Environmentally-Extended Multi-



                                                                                              9
       Regional Input-Output database developed by ETH Zurich was used. ISIC aligns or can
       be converted to the industry classification used in the MRIO database.

14. What does it mean that the updated ENCORE knowledge base shows
only "key" value chain links?

The updated ENCORE knowledge base provides data on key value chain links for the different
economic activities. This includes only the top value chain links based on their value added.
For example, for the direct operation of Construction of buildings, the following first tier
upstream value chain links are shown: Civil engineering, Construction of buildings, Land
transport and transport via pipeline, Specialized construction activities, Manufacture of
fabricated metal products, except machinery and equipment. These have provided the highest
value added to the economic activity of Construction of buildings. Data on the value chain links
and their value added is taken from the EE-MRIO database. More information about this can
be found in Section 2.7 of the Explanatory note.

15. Which materiality ratings were assessed using quantitative
indicators and which were assessed using the qualitative methodology?
See Tables 6 and 7 in Section 2.6 of the Explanatory Note.

16. Why are the updated materiality ratings different from the previous
ones?
The materiality ratings of the updated knowledge base are designed to be comparable across
sectors and economic activities, which was not the case in the previous iteration of the
knowledge base. Please consider that the ratings indicate materiality of dependencies and
pressures at the global and broad economic activity level. As such, they should only serve to
inform initial screening. This should be followed by spatially explicit and company-specific
assessments to understand the actual dependencies and pressures of the given company.

The difference in materiality ratings between the old and new versions of the ENCORE
knowledge base result from one or more of the following reasons.
   • Due to changes in materiality rating methodologies – In the previous version of the
       ENCORE knowledge base, all materiality ratings were assigned based on qualitative
       assessment only. The questions that were used for the assessment can be found in
       the materiality ratings files of the 2018-2023 version of the ENCORE knowledge base,
       available to download in the Archive box. In the updated ENCORE knowledge base, the
       materiality ratings were assigned based on quantitative data where possible. Where a
       qualitative assessment was used, this was based on an updated set of guiding
       questions. The first reason for updating the guiding questions was to ensure that the
       new materiality ratings enable comparisons across economic activities and sectors.
       The second reason for updating the guiding questions was to clarify that the pressure
       materiality ratings reflect the significance of the pressures exerted by the economic
       activity, not the resulting impacts to which these pressures are likely to lead. More
       information on the updated materiality rating methodologies can be found in Section
       2.6 of the Explanatory Note.
   • Due to the change in the industry classification – In some cases, the materiality rating
       is different because the updated ENCORE knowledge base uses a list of economic
       activities based on ISIC Level 3 and 4 instead of the production processes used in the
       previous version of the ENCORE knowledge base. This includes situations where:
           o An economic activity is defined in a more detailed way as the list of economic
                activities based on ISIC Level 3 and 4 is significantly more granular than the


                                                                                             10
             ENCORE production processes. For example, the production process of Large-
             scale irrigated arable crops in GICS® is now divided into different ISIC economic
             activities such as Growing of rice, Growing of cereals, Growing of sugar cane,
             Growing of tobacco, Growing of vegetables, etc.
        o An economic activity is defined differently in ISIC than what the name of the
             previous production process implied. For example, the production process
             Natural fibre production is now captured by the ISIC Group Spinning, weaving
             and finishing of textiles.
        o The definition of the economic activity, provided by the ISIC industry
             classification, makes it clearer what is included in the economic activity. For
             example, the production process Alcoholic fermentation and distilling implied a
             focus on the fermenting and distilling the wine. In the ISIC industry
             classification, Manufacture of wines is more clearly defined as including the
             entire manufacturing process of wines, e.g., including blending of wines.
•   Due to changes in the categorization of ecosystem services – Some dependency
    materiality ratings changed because the updated ENCORE knowledge base uses
    ecosystem services categorization based on SEEA EA Level 1, whereas the previous
    version of the ENCORE knowledge base used the CICES 4.3 categorization. There are
    differences between the ecosystem service definitions used by this categorization.
    For instance, the new Soil and sediment retention ecosystem service includes Buffering
    and attenuation of mass flows and Mass stabilisation and erosion control. Therefore,
    what before was split into two ratings for two different ecosystem services, is now
    covered by the rating for one ecosystem service. For more information on the
    alignment between the old and new ecosystem service categorizations, see Section
    2.2 of the Explanatory Note and the crosswalk included in the package of files for
    download.
•   Due to integration of new qualitative research – During the review of the qualitative
    links between economic activities and ecosystem services, and economic activities
    and pressures, new or updated sources or evidence were found. Some economic
    activities, which in the previous version of the ENCORE knowledge base were not
    linked to a given ecosystem service or pressure, have now been linked to the given
    ecosystem service or pressure and a materiality rating has been added. More
    information on the updates to the qualitative links can be found in Section 2.5 of the
    Explanatory Note.
•   Due to the changes from impact drivers to pressures – The previous version of the
    ENCORE knowledge base provided impact materiality ratings. These were specified
    for each production process - impact driver combination, but they were determined by
    the severity and frequency of impact, not the significance of the impact driver. This
    caused confusion among ENCORE users. Some pressure materiality ratings also
    changed because the list of pressures (impact drivers) has been updated. For
    example, the previous version of the ENCORE knowledge base differentiated between
    Soil pollutants and Water pollutants as two different impact drivers. In the updated
    ENCORE knowledge base, these have been redefined as Emissions of nutrient
    pollutants to water and soil, and Emissions of toxic pollutants to water and soil. This is
    because, in practice, soil pollutant emissions often become water pollutants and vice
    versa, but it is useful to differentiate between nutrient and toxic pollutants as they lead
    to different impacts. As a result of these changes in the pressure categories, some
    economic activities will have different materiality ratings than in the previous version
    of the knowledge base. More information about the change from impact drivers to
    pressures can be found in Section 2.3 of the Explanatory Note.
•   Due to the use of per 1 EUR of output values in quantitative assessment – The
    materiality ratings methodology has been improved to enable comparison of the



                                                                                            11
         ratings across economic activities and sectors. In ISIC, similarly to other industry
         classifications, the economic activities are not defined to be equivalent in size. To
         enable comparison of materiality between different economic activities, the
         quantitative materiality ratings were assigned based on ‘per 1 EUR of output’ values
         rather than total (absolute) values. The qualitative assessment used to assign the
         qualitative materiality ratings also considered the significance of the dependency or
         pressure relative to the size of the economic activity. More information about the use
         of per 1 EUR output values can be found in Section 2.6 of the Explanatory Note. Table
         3 below illustrates that the total amount of GHG emissions varies between different
         agricultural activities also due to the different sizes of these activities in terms of total
         financial output.

Table 3. Examples of activities and their financial output (in millions of Euros).

                                                                                               Amount of
                                                                                              GHG emitted
                                                                                 Amount of    per 1 EUR of
                                                            Total output
                                                                                GHG emitted    output (kg
                                                            (in millions
                 Economic activity                                               (kg CO2e)       CO2e)
                                                              of EUR)
                                                                               4,071,777      14.787*10-6
 Cultivation of paddy rice                                 275,354
                                                                               377,358        1.933*10-6
 Cultivation of wheat                                      195,159
                                                                               377,358        1.190*10-6
 Cultivation of cereal grains nec                          316,878
                                                                               230,340        0.175*10-6
 Cultivation of vegetables, fruit, nuts                    1,311,684
                                                                               377,358        1.838*10-6
 Cultivation of oil seeds                                  205,303
                                                                               834,907        10.443*10-6
 Cultivation of sugar cane, sugar beet                     79,946
                                                                               350,072        3.986*10-6
 Cultivation of plant-based fibers                         87,819
Source: Financial output and GHG emissions data are based on the Environmentally-Extended Multi-Regional Input-
Output (EE-MRIO) database developed by ETH Zurich.

         As part of the full launch in the second half of 2024, access to the absolute total output
         and per 1 EUR of output values will be included. This will allow users to understand
         how the ratings were derived. Those interested in materiality based on the total
         pressure exerted rather than per 1 EUR of output values will be able to calculate it
         themselves.

Some examples of all the cases above can be found in the table below.




                                                                                                            12
Table 4. Examples of differences between materiality ratings and the rationale behind it

 Economic         Equivalent       Pressures or Ecosystem        Question related to the   Detailed explanation
 activity (ISIC   production       services                      differences between
 Level 3 or 4)    process                                        the previous ENCORE
                  used in          Previous      Updated         knowledge base rating
                  previous         ENCORE        ENCORE          and the updated
                  ENCORE                                         ENCORE knowledge
                  knowledge                                      base rating
                  base
 Growing of       Large-scale      Pollination   Pollination     Why has the rating        The previous version of the ENCORE knowledge base differentiated between Large scale
 rice             irrigated                                      changed from H in the     irrigated arable crops, Large scale rainfed arable crops, Small scale irrigated arable crops
                  arable crops                                   previous ENCORE           and Small scale rainfed arable crops. In the updated ENCORE knowledge base, the
                                                                 knowledge base to VL      ‘Growing of crops’ activities are divided into more than eight economic activities at ISIC
                                                                 in the updated ENCORE     Level 4, including Growing of rice, Growing of cereal, Growing of sugar cane etc. The
                                                                 knowledge base?           updated materiality ratings can therefore reflect the differences in materiality of the
                                                                                           dependency for the specific type of crop. Both large and small-scale companies are
                                                                                           included within each crop category.
 Mining of        Mining           Water         Water           Why has the rating        In the desk review of the latest scientific and grey literature, it was found that mining of
 hard coal                         quality       purification    changed from N/A in       coal may require a "washing" process involving water and chemicals to remove sulphur
                                                                 the previous ENCORE       and impurities. This requires purified water.
                                                                 knowledge base to VH
                                                                 in the updated ENCORE
                                                                 knowledge base?
 Extraction of    Integrated oil   Soil          Emissions of    Why has the rating        The previous ENCORE knowledge base used the impact driver Soil pollutants. In the
 crude            and gas          pollutants    nutrient        changed from H in the     updated ENCORE knowledge base, this is split into Emissions of toxic pollutants to water
 petroleum                                       pollutants to   previous ENCORE           and soil and Emissions of nutrient pollutants to water and soil. The research found that this
                  Oil and gas                    water and       knowledge base to N/A     economic activity does not emit nutrient pollutants. You will, however, notice that the
                  exploration                    soil            in the updated ENCORE     materiality rating for the pressure Emissions of toxic pollutants to water and soil is VH
                  surveys                                        knowledge base?           because the activity does indeed emit toxic pollutants.




                                                                                                                                                                                13
Mining of   Mining   Volume of   Water use   Why has the rating        In the previous version of the ENCORE knowledge base, the materiality rating was based
iron ores            water use               changed from VH in the    on qualitative assessment only. It used a methodology that considered the severity,
                                             previous version of the   frequency, and speed of onset of the impact.
                                             ENCORE knowledge
                                             base to L in the          In the updated ENCORE knowledge base, the materiality rating for this pressure is
                                             updated ENCORE            assessed using a quantitative methodology. The updated materiality rating methodology
                                             knowledge base?           also focuses on the significance of the pressure, meaning that the materiality rating
                                                                       reflects how water-intense the economic activity is. It does not reflect the severity of the
                                                                       impact that the activity’s water consumption could lead to, which could vary from location
                                                                       to location.

                                                                       A few other methodological changes contribute to the change in the rating:
                                                                           •    The data on volume of water use, taken from EE-MRIO database developed by
                                                                                ETH Zurich, includes only water that is consumed (i.e., not returned into the
                                                                                ecosystem). Water needed for cooling, for example, that is returned to the
                                                                                ecosystem, would not be included in the values underlying this materiality rating
                                                                                (it is considered in the Water supply dependency materiality rating).
                                                                           •    The rating is assigned based on per 1 EUR of output values. While Mining of iron
                                                                                ores may use significant amounts of water, the average amount of water used
                                                                                per 1 EUR of output is much lower than for other economic activities (e.g.,
                                                                                Growing of cereals). The ratings are assigned using per 1 EUR of output values to
                                                                                enable comparison across economic activities and sectors – without this would
                                                                                be impossible to make comparisons across different economic activities.
                                                                           •    The updated materiality rating methodology is designed to ensure that the
                                                                                materiality ratings reflect the relative differences in materiality between the
                                                                                different economic activities and sectors. An economic activity with water use
                                                                                pressure materiality rating of Low, may still use significant amounts of water.
                                                                                But as it is compared to other economic activities, and falls substantially below
                                                                                the mean on the distribution of values, it is assigned a Low materiality rating. If
                                                                                all economic activities received a High or Very High materiality rating, the ratings
                                                                                would have limited information value for users.




                                                                                                                                                           14
Construction   Construction   Area of    Terrestrial   Why has the rating        In the previous version of the ENCORE knowledge base, the materiality rating was based
of buildings                  land use   ecosystem     changed from VH in the    on qualitative assessment only. It used a methodology that considered the severity,
                                         use           previous version of the   frequency and speed of onset of the impact.
                                                       ENCORE knowledge
                                                       base to L in the          In the updated ENCORE knowledge base, the materiality rating for this pressure is
                                                       updated ENCORE            assessed using a quantitative methodology. The updated materiality rating methodology
                                                       knowledge base?           also focuses on the significance of the pressure, meaning that the materiality rating
                                                                                 reflects the activity’s land use, it does not reflect the severity of the impact that the
                                                                                 activity’s land use could lead to, which could vary from location to location.

                                                                                 A few other methodological changes contribute to the change in the rating:
                                                                                     •    The updated ENCORE knowledge base captures only the direct pressures
                                                                                          exerted by a given economic activity. For construction, that means thinking only
                                                                                          about the size of the area where construction activities take place in an average
                                                                                          year, not all buildings that the construction companies have built to date. As
                                                                                          soon as the construction of a building is completed, for example, the pressure is
                                                                                          “transferred” onto the activity that uses the building and surrounding
                                                                                          infrastructure.
                                                                                     •    This pressure materiality rating is based only on the quantitative data on the size
                                                                                          of the land area used. The intensity of land use is not considered. This has been
                                                                                          noted as a limitation in the methodology, and it will be important for users to be
                                                                                          aware of this when they interpret the ratings.
                                                                                     •    The updated materiality rating methodology is designed to ensure that the
                                                                                          materiality ratings reflect the relative differences in materiality between the
                                                                                          different economic activities and sectors. An economic activity with area of land
                                                                                          use pressure materiality rating of Low, may still use significant amounts of land.
                                                                                          But as it is compared to other economic activities, and falls substantially below
                                                                                          the mean on the distribution of values, it is assigned a Low materiality rating. If
                                                                                          all economic activities received a High or Very High materiality rating, the ratings
                                                                                          would have limited information value for users.




                                                                                                                                                                     15
17. I want to design/develop a tool based on the improved ENCORE’s
knowledge base, what are the licence requirements to use it?
The improved ENCORE knowledge base has the same licensing as the previous iteration.
ENCORE is made available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0
International (CC BY-SA 4.0) licence. This licence allows for commercial use provided under
two conditions: 1) anything you build that integrates ENCORE is made publicly available under
the same license (CC BY-SA 4.0); and 2) any use of ENCORE is attributed to the ENCORE
Partners (please see attribution text on the Terms and Conditions page).

Users are encouraged to review the terms of the CC BY-SA 4.0 license with their legal team
to determine whether the envisaged use case is compatible with the license. Further
information about the scope and rights can be found within the ENCORE website in “Terms
and Conditions”.

18. How does the updated ENCORE knowledge base relate to the SBTN
Materiality Screening Tool?
The SBTN Materiality Screening Tool (MST) uses the direct operations data from the 2018-
2023 version of the ENCORE knowledge base.

UNEP-WCMC contributed to the development of the May 2023 version of the MST, which
covered only direct operations, alongside SBTN, BCG and SEI York. The July 2024 version of
the SBTN MST was developed by SBTN. It does not yet include the updated ENCORE
knowledge base. More information about the July 2024 version of the SBTN MST can be found
on the SBTN website.

ENCORE Partners are working with SBTN to explore how the updated ENCORE knowledge
base can be integrated into the next version of the SBTN MST.




                                                                                          16
